---
layout: post
title: Lost Time
date: 2016-03-24
---

I have lost some time again.

If I could return back of my old days, I think I should go back to my college age which I had lost time and should study hard especially English and programming skills. 

From last Saterday, I lost for some odd situation that I don't want to finish my math homework and anything else. So I read some fiction books and watch the movie. These entertainments are very interesting, however I don't quite want those.

Asking myself, what's the most important for me? I think that fisrt and foremost I really want to be a good father and husband, and I'm longing for some freedom including financial freedome and [freedom from fear](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Freedoms).

This morning I read an article about ["design thinking"](http://cn.nytstyle.com/living/20160106/t06well-design-think/en-us/), I follow the steps of the article.

1. emphasize
2. define the problem
3. ideate
4. build a prototype or create plan
5. test the idea and seek feedback from others

First, I think my real issues is to be growing up quickly.

Then, the problem I want to solve is how to be a qualified programmer. If I would be a better engineer, I could find some ideal job that means I have more opportunity to be freelancer and emmigrant, even to be financial freelance.

There are some idea from brainstorm of myself:

* graduate from doctoral candidate
* read technique book, such as **code complete**
* learn some stuff from codeschool
* try to find some remote job 
* ...

Now, I created some plan. 

* Finish my first year of doctoral and get all credits I need. Particularly, invest more time to my **Concrete Mathematic** course, and solid my fundation for future programming work.
* Read some book, like **code complete** and **the leadership pipeline**, don't read fiction books.
* Finish my machine learning course from julyedu.
* Continue to improve my English.
* Go through the Code School, at least finish one path.

Finally, I need some feedback. Let's retrospect some days ago.


